[KIECLOUD-421] - Provide an smartrouter extension app example (#462)
jboss-container-images/rhpam-7-openshift-image: quickstarts/router-ext/README.md

## Red Hat Process Automation Manager SmartRouter Extension Example

Note that, this is the development branch, the target images might not be available here, instead you can look at the [released branch](https://github.com/jboss-container-images/rhpam-7-openshift-image/tree/7.9.x/quickstarts/router-ext)

This quickstart is intend to be used with the [RHPAM SmartRouter](https://github.com/jboss-container-images/rhpam-7-openshift-image/tree/master/smartrouter) image.

> The SmartRouter extensions are used to extend the Smart Router functionalities to make it to adapt to your needs.

Author: not sure if I agree with it.
I would stick with "The extensions are used to..."

> The SmartRouter extensions are used to extend the Smart Router functionalities to make it to adapt to your needs.

Reviewer: That's okay, but how about "adapt the routing to your needs"? And replacing "functionalities" with "functionality".

> The SmartRouter extensions are used to extend the Smart Router functionalities to make it to adapt to your needs.

Author: sounds good, updated.

> This example provides a very simple custom Kie Container resolver based on its version and how you can add this

Author: "of the contained" what it does mean?

> This example provides a very simple custom Kie Container resolver based on its version and how you can add this

Reviewer: Sorry, typo - "on the version of the container".

> This example provides a very simple custom Kie Container resolver based on its version and how you can add this

Author: updated to: 
"This example provides a very simple custom Kie Container resolver based on the Kie Container version and how you can add this
extension to a custom Smart Router image."

to avoid confusion between container image and kie container.

extension on a custom Smart Router image.

## How to use it?

As first step, build it with Maven:

```bash
$ mvn clean package
```

It will generate the following jar: `target/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar` 

With the extension built, we can now prepare our env to extend the `registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-smartrouter-rhel8:7.9.0`

> and customize it, so we can use the recently built extension.

Author: what class means in this context?

If you don't have the Smart Router image on your local registry, pull it:

```bash
$ docker pull registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-smartrouter-rhel8:7.9.0
```

> Create a directory to place the needed files to be building the custom Smart Router Image. For this example I'll be using 

Author: I prefer to keep "I'll be using" as it should be a user preference on where they will be creating it.

the tmp directory.

```bash
$ mkdir /tmp/smartrouter
$ cp target/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar /tmp/smartrouter
$ cd /tmp/smartrouter
```

To be able to proceed to the next step, we'll need to extract the `openshift-launch.sh` file from the official Smart Router image.
It can be easily done with the following command:

```bash

> $ docker run --rm registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-smartrouter-rhel8:7.9.0 \

Author: for product we are still using docker, it will change in the future.

    cat /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh > openshift-launch.sh
```

Check the file content, it should be the same than [this file](https://github.com/jboss-container-images/jboss-kie-modules/blob/rhpam-7.9.0.GA/jboss-kie-smartrouter/added/openshift-launch.sh).

> With the file ready, edit the last line, the `exec` instruction from:

Author: "With the file handy, in the last line of the file, change, the `exec` instruction from:" sounds better imho.

```bash
exec ${JAVA_HOME}/bin/java ${SHOW_JVM_SETTINGS} ${JAVA_OPTS} ${JAVA_OPTS_APPEND} ${JAVA_PROXY_OPTIONS} "${D_ARR[@]}" -jar /opt/${JBOSS_PRODUCT}/${KIE_ROUTER_DISTRIBUTION_JAR}
```

To:

```bash
exec ${JAVA_HOME}/bin/java ${SHOW_JVM_SETTINGS} "${D_ARR[@]}" \
    -cp /opt/${JBOSS_PRODUCT}/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar:/opt/${JBOSS_PRODUCT}/${KIE_ROUTER_DISTRIBUTION_JAR} \
    org.kie.server.router.KieServerRouter
```

Notice that we are just adding the extension jar to the Java Class Path.
At this point we can build the custom Smart Router image.

Create a file called Dockerfile with the following content:

```bash
from registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-smartrouter-rhel8:7.9.0

RUN rm -rfv /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh
COPY openshift-launch.sh  /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh

COPY router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar

USER root
RUN chown jboss. /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh
RUN chmod +x /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh

> ```

Author: yep, thanks for spotting this.

> Bow, build the image:

Author: heheh, yes, typo.

  Step 7/7 : RUN chmod +x /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh
   ---> Running in b400e9fd55e0
  Removing intermediate container b400e9fd55e0
   ---> 0faadb0697a0
  Successfully built 0faadb0697a0
  Successfully tagged my-smartrouter-ext:1.0
```

With the image built, let's make sure that the `openshift-launch.sh` script was correctly updated:

```bash
$ docker run --rm my-smartrouter-ext:1.0 cat /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh
...
exec ${JAVA_HOME}/bin/java ${SHOW_JVM_SETTINGS} "${D_ARR[@]}" \
    -cp /opt/${JBOSS_PRODUCT}/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar:/opt/${JBOSS_PRODUCT}/${KIE_ROUTER_DISTRIBUTION_JAR} \
    org.kie.server.router.KieServerRouter
```

If the output is the same, you are ready to proceed and run the image to make sure it is working:

```bash
...
INFO: Using 'LatestVersionContainerResolver' container resolver and restriction policy 'ByPassUserNotAllowedRestrictionPolicy'
...
INFO: KieServerRouter started on :9000 at Tue Sep 01 20:23:08 UTC 2020
```

Note that the `LatestVersionContainerResolver` is our custom container resolver added by the extension we added in the 
Smart Router image.

## Deploying it on OpenShift using RHPAM Operator.

> For this tutorial, I'll be using the CodeReady Containers, for details on how to install it please take a look [here](https://cloud.redhat.com/openshift/install/crc/installer-provisioned?intcmp=7013a000002CtetAAC)

Author: to use CRC user must be authenticated, any user is able to create a user there.

> For this tutorial, I'll be using the CodeReady Containers, for details on how to install it please take a look [here](https://cloud.redhat.com/openshift/install/crc/installer-provisioned?intcmp=7013a000002CtetAAC)

Author: I do prefer to use "I'll be using CRC" as it is also a personal choice.

...
1.0: digest: sha256:f3ab6429871c88815a8ebd3b0f4d38794a342980bb518f87a3d4512cd041f576 size: 1989
```
Note that the `rhpam-smartrouter` is the namespace we just created.

Let's check if the image is there:

```bash
$ oc get imagestream
NAME                 IMAGE REPOSITORY                                                                               TAGS      UPDATED
my-smartrouter-ext   default-route-openshift-image-registry.apps-crc.testing/rhpam-smartrouter/my-smartrouter-ext   1.0       2 minutes ago
```

Now proceed to the OpenShift Web Console, use the following `crc` command to open it:
```bash
# opens the console in the web browser
$ crc console
# gets the crc credentials
$ crc console --credentials
```

Once logged in, select the project we created before (rhpam-smartrouter) and install the Business Automation in this namespace.
To do this please follow [this](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_process_automation_manager/7.8/html/deploying_a_red_hat_process_automation_manager_environment_on_red_hat_openshift_container_platform_using_operators/operator-con#operator-subscribe-proc) step.

> Then access the wizard installer, instructions available [here](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_process_automation_manager/7.8/html/deploying_a_red_hat_process_automation_manager_environment_on_red_hat_openshift_container_platform_using_operators/operator-con#operator-deploy-start-proc)

Author: I'll be updating it when the docs are released.

> To configure the and Environment with Smart Router follow the steps described in this [section](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_process_automation_manager/7.8/html/deploying_a_red_hat_process_automation_manager_environment_on_red_hat_openshift_container_platform_using_operators/operator-con#operator-deploy-smartrouter-proc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure the Environment with Smart Router follow the steps described in this [section](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_process_automation_manager/7.8/html/deploying_a_red_hat_process_automation_manager_environment_on_red_hat_openshift_container_platform_using_operators/operator-con#operator-deploy-smartrouter-proc).
```

> As we are going to use a custom Smart Router image, fill the following fields in the wizard installer:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a custom Smart Router image, fill the following fields in the wizard installer:
```

```bash
Image Context -> rhpam-smartrouter (the namespace we've pushed the image previously)
Image -> my-smartrouter-ext (the image name)
Image tag -> 1.0
```

> As output, a similar yaml should be generated:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you view the generated YAML source for the installation, the source should be similar to the following example:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: app.kiegroup.org/v2
kind: KieApp
metadata:
  name: smartrouter-ext-example
spec:
  environment: rhpam-trial
  objects:
    console:
      replicas: 1
    servers:
      - id: kieserver
        name: kieserver
        replicas: 1
    smartRouter:
      imageContext: rhpam-smartrouter
      image: my-smartrouter-ext
      imageTag: '1.0'
      replicas: 1

```

> Make sure all the pods are running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start the deployment. When the deployment completes, make sure all the pods are running:
```

Author: "Proceed by clicking on the `Deploy` button. When the deployment completes, make sure all the pods are running:"

wdyt?

```bash
$ oc get pods
NAME                                           READY     STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
kieserver-2-deploy                             0/1       Completed   0          20m
kieserver-2-f7j7q                              1/1       Running     0          20m
smartrouter-ext-example-rhpamcentr-2-deploy    0/1       Completed   0          20m
smartrouter-ext-example-rhpamcentr-2-vmtkc     1/1       Running     0          20m
smartrouter-ext-example-smartrouter-1-deploy   0/1       Completed   0          29m
smartrouter-ext-example-smartrouter-1-krklj    1/1       Running     0          29m
```

> At this point the environment should be ready to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point the environment is ready to use.
```

> To make sure the custom Smart Router is really in use, check its logs a look for the new ability we have added with the 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make sure the custom Smart Router extension is really in use, check the logs of tha Smart Router pod and look for the custom class added in the 
```

```

To:

```bash
exec ${JAVA_HOME}/bin/java ${SHOW_JVM_SETTINGS} "${D_ARR[@]}" \
    -cp /opt/${JBOSS_PRODUCT}/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar:/opt/${JBOSS_PRODUCT}/${KIE_ROUTER_DISTRIBUTION_JAR} \
    org.kie.server.router.KieServerRouter
```

This change adds the extension JAR file to the Java Class Path.
Next, build the custom Smart Router image.

Create a file called Dockerfile with the following content:

```bash
from registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-smartrouter-rhel8:7.9.0

RUN rm -rfv /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh
COPY openshift-launch.sh  /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh

COPY router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar

USER root
RUN chown jboss. /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh
RUN chmod +x /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh

# run image with jboss user.
USER 185
```

Now, build the image:

```bash
$ docker build -t my-smartrouter-ext:1.0 .
docker build -t my-smartrouter-ext:1.0 .
Sending build context to Docker daemon   12.8kB

> Step 1/8 : from rhpam-7/rhpam-smartrouter-rhel8:7.8.1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Step 1/8 : from rhpam-7/rhpam-smartrouter-rhel8:7.9.0
```
To be aligned with doc above.

Author: fixed, ctrl C + V leftover :)

Use this quick start guide with the [RHPAM SmartRouter](https://github.com/jboss-container-images/rhpam-7-openshift-image/tree/master/smartrouter) image.

The SmartRouter extensions are used to extend the Smart Router functionalities to make it to adapt to your needs.
This example provides a very simple custom Kie Container resolver based on its version and how you can add this
extension to a custom Smart Router image.

## Using the example SmartRouter extension

Build the source code with Maven:

```bash
$ mvn clean package
```

The build process will generate the following jar: `target/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar` 

After building the Smart Router extension, you can prepare the environment to extend the `registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-smartrouter-rhel8:7.9.0` image 
and customize it, to include the recently built Smart Router extension.

If you don't have the Smart Router image on your local registry, pull it:

```bash
$ docker pull registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-smartrouter-rhel8:7.9.0
```

> Create a directory for building the custom Smart Router Image. For this example we use. For this example I'll be using 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a directory for building the custom Smart Router Image. For this example we use 
```

Author: " For this example I'll be using the tmp directory." sounds better, no?
as it is a personal choice on where to create this directory.

the tmp directory.

```bash
$ mkdir /tmp/smartrouter
$ cp target/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar /tmp/smartrouter
$ cd /tmp/smartrouter
```

To extract the `openshift-launch.sh` file from the official Smart Router image, enter the following command:

```bash
$ docker run --rm registry.redhat.io/rhpam-7/rhpam-smartrouter-rhel8:7.9.0 \
    cat /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh > openshift-launch.sh
```

Check the file content, it should be the same as [this file](https://github.com/jboss-container-images/jboss-kie-modules/blob/rhpam-7.9.0.GA/jboss-kie-smartrouter/added/openshift-launch.sh).

> With the file handy, in the last line of the file, change, the `exec` instruction from:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Edit the file. In the last line of the file, change the `exec` instruction from:
```

```bash
exec ${JAVA_HOME}/bin/java ${SHOW_JVM_SETTINGS} ${JAVA_OPTS} ${JAVA_OPTS_APPEND} ${JAVA_PROXY_OPTIONS} "${D_ARR[@]}" -jar /opt/${JBOSS_PRODUCT}/${KIE_ROUTER_DISTRIBUTION_JAR}
```

To:

```bash
exec ${JAVA_HOME}/bin/java ${SHOW_JVM_SETTINGS} "${D_ARR[@]}" \
    -cp /opt/${JBOSS_PRODUCT}/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar:/opt/${JBOSS_PRODUCT}/${KIE_ROUTER_DISTRIBUTION_JAR} \
    org.kie.server.router.KieServerRouter
```

> This change adds the extension JAR file to the Java Class Pa

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change adds the extension JAR file to the Java Class Path.
```

Removing intermediate container a13e36a57a50
 ---> e5829697cb44
Step 8/8 : USER 185
 ---> Running in 5639fe7e585f
Removing intermediate container 5639fe7e585f
 ---> 18a546161039
Successfully built 18a546161039
Successfully tagged my-smartrouter-ext:1.0

```

To verify the built image, check that the `openshift-launch.sh` script was correctly updated:

```bash
$ docker run --rm my-smartrouter-ext:1.0 cat /opt/rhpam-smartrouter/openshift-launch.sh
...
exec ${JAVA_HOME}/bin/java ${SHOW_JVM_SETTINGS} "${D_ARR[@]}" \
    -cp /opt/${JBOSS_PRODUCT}/router-ext-0.0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar:/opt/${JBOSS_PRODUCT}/${KIE_ROUTER_DISTRIBUTION_JAR} \
    org.kie.server.router.KieServerRouter
```

If the output is the same, you are ready to proceed and run the image to make sure it is working:

```bash
...
INFO: Using 'LatestVersionContainerResolver' container resolver and restriction policy 'ByPassUserNotAllowedRestrictionPolicy'
...
INFO: KieServerRouter started on :9000 at Tue Sep 01 20:23:08 UTC 2020
```

`LatestVersionContainerResolver` is the custom container resolver that the extension adds to the 
Smart Router image.

## Deploying the custom image on OpenShift using RHPAM Operator.

> For this tutorial, I'll be using the CodeReady Containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tutorial, we use CodeReady Containers.
```

Author: same here, it is a personal choice, "we use" sounds a bit strange in this context.

Reviewer: All right - it's not what could fly in docs - but this is github so let it be

For instructions about installing CodeReady Containers, see [Install OpenShift on a laptop with CodeReady Containers](https://cloud.redhat.com/openshift/install/crc/installer-provisioned?intcmp=7013a000002CtetAAC)

Start CRC and log in, when CRC starts the credentials are printed in the logs, for example:

```bash
$ crc start
...
INFO Then you can access it by running 'oc login -u developer -p developer https://api.crc.testing:6443' 
INFO To login as an admin, run 'oc login -u kubeadmin -p ILWgF-VfgcQ-p6mJ4-Jztez https://api.crc.testing:6443'
```

Log in using the `oc` command utility (just copy the oc login command, similar to the example above):

```bash
$ oc login -u kubeadmin -p ILWgF-VfgcQ-p6mJ4-Jztez https://api.crc.testing:6443
...
Using project "default".
```

Create a new namespace and log in to the CRC registry:
```bash
$ oc new-project rhpam-smartrouter
$ docker login -p $(oc whoami -t) -u unused default-route-openshift-image-registry.apps-crc.testing
```

> Before proceeding further, tag the custom Smart Router that was built in the previous steps and push it to the CRC registry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before proceeding further, tag the custom Smart Router image that was built in the previous steps and push it to the CRC registry
```

```yaml
apiVersion: app.kiegroup.org/v2
kind: KieApp
metadata:
  name: smartrouter-ext-example
spec:
  environment: rhpam-trial
  objects:
    console:
      replicas: 1
    servers:
      - id: kieserver
        name: kieserver
        replicas: 1
    smartRouter:
      imageContext: rhpam-smartrouter
      image: my-smartrouter-ext
      imageTag: '1.0'
      replicas: 1
```

Proceed by clicking on the `Deploy` button. When the deployment completes, make sure all the pods are running:
```bash
$ oc get pods
NAME                                           READY     STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
kieserver-2-deploy                             0/1       Completed   0          20m
kieserver-2-f7j7q                              1/1       Running     0          20m
smartrouter-ext-example-rhpamcentr-2-deploy    0/1       Completed   0          20m
smartrouter-ext-example-rhpamcentr-2-vmtkc     1/1       Running     0          20m
smartrouter-ext-example-smartrouter-1-deploy   0/1       Completed   0          29m
smartrouter-ext-example-smartrouter-1-krklj    1/1       Running     0          29m
```

At this point the environment is ready to use.

> To make sure the custom Smart Router extension is really in use, check the logs of tha Smart Router pod and look for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make sure the custom Smart Router extension is really in use, check the logs of the Smart Router pod and look for the
```
